 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In fact, only one sentence moved us in the establishment. In fact, the acceptance of students, that is, everyone should be accepted. a sentence was said. They said, I am a graduate of electrical engineering engineering. Then with our engineering friends, we are really trying to pass the lessons ahead in a very good way. We are trying to learn, we are trying to improve our technical skills, etc. Then a word was told to us. It started with that sentence. In fact, the first action of the first action was that you are doing well, no matter how much technical information you have. Here, they said, Turkey, if there is no network here, success will come a little late or not. A sentence was set up and we completely rejected it with the team at that time. We said, how can you accept this acceptance? And this is what you accept. What? How can you accept the new generations in the real world? We said, let's set up such an organization, let's set up such an ecosystem so that no one can have network problems when they leave this ecosystem. Let's set up such a network side so that everyone can proceed in the most efficient way. That's how Sustainsol started. We made our first impact. Our coming participants, our judges, our mentors, everyone left in a very happy way. We said yes. And we have shortcomings here. Let's get rid of these shortcomings. Let's do it more professionally, in a better way. We said, we said, we said, we said, we said. And then it became an event that made all of Turkey from Ankara. Sustainsol. But of course, it was still like that in our student years. We are young, we have no experience. So we have to improve ourselves a lot. Then we said, we are establishing a motto for the team. Take an impact. Leave the impact. And we will always repeat it. Our motto from the impact is this. Improve yourself. Improve yourself in every field. But it doesn't work. If we want to change a society, if we want to start a change, if we want to solve problems, it is not enough to just improve. It is necessary to improve the other side. And leave this impact. So take an impact, improve yourself. Leave the impact, improve the environment. And let this become a cycle. We have established an ecosystem that we say, repeat this all the time. We have established a system. Sustainsol says this on paper. The goal is to produce solutions for the future generation of problems. At this point, we solved many different problems and concepts in many different places with many different friends. And we say this. In every broadcast, in every speech, we are an ecosystem that creates an impact on a sustainable world as sustainsol. The left and right, probably we are not on the screen. There is the sustainsol logo. On the other side, there is the Commitive logo. And there are Commitive Nutrition, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Psychology and Medicine. There are those among you who see or hear these logos other than sustainsol. We want an ecosystem. While sustainsol focuses on sustainability and entrepreneurship, Commitive Dentistry, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Physiology, Psychology, Psychology, we have six different communities. In other words, sustainsol plus five, we have a total of six different communities. I know that all of our friends watch the live broadcast. And these six different teams work separately on their own. And they all do impact-oriented work. And they are all under the Commitive roof, under a cooperative film we run with Deniz. Deniz normally puts a photo of us on these kinds of shows. I didn't put it. Deniz looks better on all of them. I thought why he puts me in the photo. That's why I didn't give it today. Deniz always thinks about me when he sees me. We produce these with Deniz for community. And in six different teams, in different concepts, it has an impact on all of Turkey. If you have a physician friend, you must have heard of Commitive Dentistry. It was one of the best communities in its field. Sustainsol is the same. We have established a new one in all of our other communities. Nutrition, Pharmacy, Psychology and Medicine are our new teams. They are also very good. They have started to do their own research in their own regions and will be broadcast to all of Turkey. We are not just doing a york. You follow us now. You do. We are actually adapting to 10 different projects. We are doing chat and solars for the needs of each city. We say, let a specialist come when we enter. Let a student from the university sit in a cafe nearby. Let 20 students come from the university. Let's meet them there. Let's solve the network problem. Let's solve the problem of experience acquisition. Let's make it easy for us. If there is no info, then let's keep it easy. All of these are valuable projects. But the biggest project of Sustainsol is Riyort. We are actually here for Riyort. We are very excited about Riyort. Maybe the view of the world has spread for you, but there is a huge team of 25 people behind the scenes. They are all excited to see you. They are excited for the impact they will see at the end of the two months. They have already taken the impact and are waiting impatiently to meet you to leave the effect. We had a very good process this year while preparing for the Rio Horta. We say we are growing the impact. This year, we applied from 163 different universities in Rio Horta. This actually has a very big emotional meaning for us. Because when we first did this, we were going door to door. Come on, come on, you will win a lot. Look, there is this mentor, there is this student. We were walking around the communities door to door. Here, we were saying that we will grow the impact in these universities, we will leave the impact, we will change and change. Now, at this point, just by sharing a few things, reaching 163 different universities reminds us of what we first came out with. Change is not actually a very difficult thing. Step by step, but a long way. And we can achieve this. We can be hope for a country that is in hopelessness. Why should we be hope? In fact, hope is not the only thing that is in hopelessness. It is also a little responsibility for these ages. This is our responsibility. Everyone expects us to change something, everyone expects us to fix certain things. Of course, we also have a very big burden behind us. Especially this generation, we saw the earthquake together, we experienced economic difficulties together, we saw fires together. We have experienced many things together. On the one hand, we are waiting to fix them. On the other hand, we are looking for family things. On the other hand, we are looking for family things. We are trying to fix things. So we have loads behind us. What are those loads? We are separating from our loved ones. For example, we don't have much time to live even the pain of it. Because we have to continue. We have to save ourselves, we have to save our environment, we have to move forward. This is what we expect. In fact, you took that burden on your back. You will gain the friendships you will carry with that burden together at Rio Earth. This will be Rio Earth's biggest achievement for you. While doing this, you will meet mentors who will guide you. You will meet mentors who will guide you. You will meet mentors who will guide you. Those mentors will guide you not only in the part of the journey, but throughout your life. We aim for this. We want to establish this network environment. I hope that you will take this burden with your friends and go on a long journey with your mentors. We have to do this. Because I know that university students write from LinkedIn and Instagram, which is already a very new graduate of ours. So the problems we have experienced are always the same. We know the fear, the question of what to do, the stress. You will meet your friends who are experiencing that stress and fear. And together you will overcome that fear. And our lifelong impact journey will begin. Because I said there is a 25-person team here. They have great excitement. Their sleepless nights, their great excitement, their work, etc. will turn into a very good feeling, a very good effect. And we will really feel this effect for a lifetime. There is always an example I give in the presentations. I explain the concept of impact as follows. First of all, to those who will meet. You know, when you meet an elderly person, you go and you are very happy to have such a help. But it's a short time. But it makes you smile. The effect is that you will constantly feed something in you that makes that feeling much bigger and sustainable. In fact, the part you change in yourself. We will start to make you feel this effect. 163 different universities will start to open. It's a very good feeling to be in touch with. At the same time, we reached a very large audience in our Sustainer part this year. The concept we call Sustainer is that companies that will mentor you, companies that will do jury work, companies that will give training, we call all of them Sustainer. And today, in the Re-Yord phase, in this process, 172 different Sustainers will support you. So, our mentors, jury members and educators from 172 different companies will meet you. How big is the network? It's completely up to you to evaluate this network. So, we will open a very nice space for you. You can evaluate this space as you want. You will shape it. But your motivation should always be high. Let it be a week that you have never closed with hopelessness. And it's always such an environment in education, such online levels. Look, there are so many things to stress, maybe. But take your coffee and sit back and listen to the other side. Stay away from everything. We want this week to be a week like this. Stay away from all the lessons, all the troubles, everything. Sit in your chair and just listen to what the other side says. Leave yourself to our flow on Monday. I hope you will have a very good time. We got 200,000 views. This is also a very good thing. We are not a team that plays a lot of media. We say, let's leave small effects to the little ones. Let them start changing. We have always walked this way. But this year, they say, let us see you in the views. Let's see you in the views. They said, no, it won't be like that. And we started using the media a little more effectively. You also realize that. We are sharing all our mentors, all our things, all of them. And we have received more than 200,000 views in total with LinkedIn and Instagram this year. Now there are certain data on the right side of this screen. This is our fourth time doing this event. We made a very small group in 2022. We have set up 18 teams with university students. We have set up 17 of these 18 teams as a problem and managed to produce a solution. We set up 29 teams in 2023. 26 of them succeeded. We set up 55 teams in 2024. 52 of them succeeded. In 2025, the number of teams will increase by about 2-3 times and we will start the process with about 150 teams. But there is an ratio below. This ratio is actually the ratio we show to all companies and defend this generation. We say this. This generation is doing very well in problem detection. And if you take a closer look at a generation that is doing very well in problem detection, this is the ratio. It can solve the problem it detects from 10 people. And this is what your heritage or your experiences reflect on you. Everyone can do this here. You can even solve a problem with a cafe. You say. You say. I had a problem with the parking lot. I can't put the car here. You say. Or coffee was very hot. Actually, it's not like doing this. If it's a match from the bottom of the house, etc. You get a lot of different ideas there. Even while drinking coffee. Be careful. Especially those in universities. Let me listen to the environment a little bit. Everyone is talking about a problem and trying to solve it. There are some ideas. But he doesn't know why he did it. He doesn't know how he did it. Actually, we will develop this feature and take it into account in the solution-oriented approach. How does an idea come to light? How is a problem solved? You will learn these. We will show you a path. And we will increase our 93% ratio to 96% this year, maybe to 7. Because you are so many. If it's 150, if it's 149, this ratio is already very high. We will be together. We will show this. We will show this to all of Turkey with you. How important this age is. How much money we can make. What is the future of the digital transformation? In other words, if you are looking at the digital transformation, the digital transformation that is being delivered in the world right now, all the developments in the world right now, it should be followed in this range. We will be emphasizing topics such as they need to give more importance to the trainees. Now, I will tell you a very short report from the 25th edition. We submitted a report to you. There was actually no such presentation. So, there was no page, but I got a lot of messages yesterday. You know, how will it be or something? I will summarize it a little bit. But after the online summit, the transition to the online camp, I will say it's very important. We will have a more detailed meeting with you in the transition to online camp and we will explain all the details there. But the first step is the online summit, that is, the current flow we are in, the online summit. It will continue today and tomorrow. 16 speakers will give the basics of sustainability and entrepreneurship. We will give you a form tonight. Online transition form to the idea development camp. Those who are not a member of our WhatsApp channel, please send an email or check their spam. Because everyone needs to have sent an email, in most cases. Let them send us an email, let's check it, let our team friends come back. We share it on WhatsApp, it will also be transmitted by email. By the way, this form. 4 different types of teams, that is, there are 4 different applicants. Actually, it's a riyote. 1. Some of you are a team, that is, you started with your friends and you have an idea. You want to develop your idea. Some of you are still in the team, but you are here to develop. You don't have an idea. You started with your friends. And you say, I want to develop, develop and win a network here. Some will apply as a member and have an idea. I have an idea like this. I want to develop this here by setting up a team individually. Some of them have started as a member, they don't have an idea and they will be here to develop and develop themselves. 4 different types of applications are riyote. And you will all start filling this form this evening. Monday morning. Until Monday. We will take these 4 different applications, evaluate them, make them a team of their own. We will transfer their channels. This will go over WhatsApp. We will transfer their channels on WhatsApp. We will send their bodies. So we will send you our friends who will support you from the team. Etc. We will start a camp transition. You will do team work for a week. In your own business. You will receive trainings. You will receive mentoring from each other. 100 online. There were 120 mentors. I don't remember the number right now. 120 companies online. 120 mentors will be with you. Think about it. We are already trying to break this. The director of x1 company. Maybe you want to talk a lot outside. But here you can't talk outside. But here you will have a meeting with him. You will do mentoring meetings. I am in the first sentence and approach here. We will make a big impact. The one coming here will not experience any network problems. Actually, those mentoring meetings have a great influence on the emergence of an idea. On the one hand, it will affect your network. I'm saying. A little bit stayed for you. Look, the director is talking with you in a meeting with you. But after the meeting is over. You will talk to him. You will plan his flow. That's why it's a little bit of you. A very nice network. We are sure that you will agree in a good way. After that, after the online opinion development camp, ideas will develop for a week and we will ask you for a 5-minute presentation. In the fourth stage, these presentations will be played by our jury and the teams that reach the final will be determined. This year's final is in four different cities. Hatay, let me go in order, first we start in Istanbul, then we go to Izmir, then Ankara, then Hatay. So a total of 10-10-10-10-10, 40 teams will be left in the final. A bootcamp that takes 48 hours. You can go to the Friday area, you can go out of the Friday area. It is a process that you have enjoyed, learned and developed a lot in the 48-hour period. The last day of the bootcamp, the last day of the final, is presented to the jury. We are integrating three teams from 10 teams into acceleration programs. They will be involved in an accelerated program according to the idea. And very good ideas will come out of here like last July. What are the ideas included in the acceleration program? The first idea is that the team will be registered, will be invested and will be a company. This is our biggest dream. And we will realize this dream with you. I say we are the same road. On this road, we will walk hand in hand, arm in arm. And we will really act as a great hope for hopelessness. And this is something we have to do and our responsibility. We will actually put the consciousness of this responsibility on you. We will add a little more to that, but this responsibility will really be for everything. I say. Thank you very much for listening to me. Let me stop sharing the screen. Maybe I will. Erk, Erk already mentioned you in great detail. We will already take you more in detail about the flow, about the summit and the camp during the process. Let's take a 5-minute break. Then let's continue with Mr. Kerem's speech at the summit. See you. See you. See you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Even if it is far from us, even if it is not visible to our eyes, we should never forget the existence of a living community. And one of the world's biggest problems is the establishment of a correct quality education system for everyone. It is really painful to say that girls and boys should be separated. It is really valuable that both girls and boys have a quality education standard. Because we are talking about people who are trying to continue their education life without having a place to sit and continue their life. And we are talking about people who are trying to continue their education life without having a place to sit and continue their life. And the fifth of the possible development goals is social gender equality. Especially in Africa and maybe under this Asian region, in the Arabian Peninsula, social gender equality is still a big problem. This is the main element that should come first after education. This is the main element that should come first after education. And we should never give up on keeping this gender equality in mind. And maybe we haven't yet understood. I don't know if anyone in Ankara has lived. We have had very serious water cuts that took two weeks recently. Even this is a simple problem. We really benefited from understanding the problem again. We have been able to find solutions to the water that needs to be used for clean water, drinking water or cleaning. There is a lot of land that we can say hundreds of thousands of square meters, millions of square meters of land. There are people who are trying to get water wells to be delivered, opened and cleaned. We know this. Our basic problem here is that both water can be cleaned and drunk and used, and people who are not yet in contact with it can reach it. So this is really a problem for us. This is a very important issue. It is that access to water, which is the main source of life, can be provided by all people. And then, maybe we haven't yet understood the value that may come after water. But a subject that we can think of with a simple sense is accessible and clean energy. Most of the energy sources were previously available through thermal or hydraulic power plants. Now, the energy produced is not enough for the world. This is a worrying issue for all of us. Think about living in an environment where there is no internet or electricity. I'm sure it will be very strange. Maybe when you try to describe this in your own life for an hour, you will really understand what the problem is in front of you more comfortably. I hope we don't see it. Being completely without energy is probably one of the most difficult and biggest problems in this world. This solution is probably one of the easiest alternatives to this problem. It is to use renewable energy sources correctly and efficiently. It should also be considered as a note. And the eighth item is business and economic growth that suits humans. Especially in some areas. Especially in some areas, children working in some sectors in the world, we will be talking about many people who cannot reach food, health services, and social opportunities during their working conditions, during their working period. We must pay attention to the concept of work and economic growth that suits people to live at a more human level. I think we should keep in mind the screens that have the images rather than the screens that have the articles, and we will have a good idea about what we should do about this subject and how we should evaluate our projects. The next item is industrial innovation and infrastructure. This is an important issue. Because if you look at it, the main problem in the world is the rate of production and consumption. The main problem in the world is the rate of production and consumption. This is due to the fact that all three sectors have to be oriented towards a very distant and unnecessary rate of consumption of each. In order to evaluate this process correctly, we need to plan production correctly and integrate the necessary innovations and innovations in the industry correctly and integrate them into life. Because when this is not integrated, the work infrastructure of people and the infrastructure of consumption are affected by many things at once. Reducing inequality is also a valuable part. 40% of the world's population has lower levels of life standards than others, both financially and financially, and they are experiencing this problem deeply. Therefore, the goal of eradicating inequality is an unimaginable goal, friends. I think it will be one of the most important questions in the future. We have always wanted to focus on this topic in our work. Sustainable cities and communities. First of all, the establishment of communities and the planning of them at a sustainable level is a very valuable aspect for humanity and the future of the world. When we update these concepts as green cities, sustainable cities and communities, we will beistles a lot of energy to the future of the world. We have to make sure that the combination of green blocks is not only evaluated with paint and standard construction materials, but also with smart buildings, with their own emissions, and with the construction of energy-generating buildings. This is an important solution for us. It is important that the friends in the team who make the future plan, design, or field applications in this regard are both more aware of the challenges of the future and the global research level in terms of solutions. We have just mentioned some of them. Now let's take a closer look at them in more detail. Responsible production and consumption. Very strange campaigns, advertising processes, a serious flow of data will be the only thing that will make you buy and buy. You will encounter them in tens of thousands of times. But friends, there is a clear request on this subject. Please evaluate whether you really need this before buying anything and carry out the purchase process only on the products you need. I keep this apart from the others. Because as you continue to buy, the industry will continue to produce. Playing with the future of the world will continue to be polluted. It will be much easier for you to not be too excited about what they don't want. This issue is really valuable for us. And climate action. I would actually like to tell you this in a short video, but I have a few ideas about disasters that may occur in front of you. I think you have a few ideas. Tsunamis, earthquakes, fires. We are now facing dozens of disasters in different parts of the world in a year. And these disasters are serious demolitions. Losses that will take years to return come to us. Therefore, a system solution that will adapt to climate change. A system solution that will reduce their effects. Making a system solution that will improve climate change is very valuable for all of us. The next two items are about life on water and on land. When the life cycle changes, friends, I am definitely and definitely saying that the ecological balance is not limited to changing. The life balance of man changes. This balance is valuable for all of us, whether it is in the land or in the water. Because when the ecological balance begins to deteriorate, even if you do nothing, with the loss of millions of lives, your comfort of life is limited. And this process, unfortunately, unfortunately, with global warming and the fast collapse of the ecological balance, with the increase of the fire level, the biggest problems on earth can be experienced. At a level where it is still in the beginning. It turns out to be a serious problem. I want to share the following visual directly with you. You may think that this is an image after a earthquake, an image after a disaster. Unfortunately not. We cannot achieve what is not possible in the world. We cannot tell people. After a war where the individual effort to make a voice was not enough, I tried to get the lightest image that I could get from Gaza at the bottom of our nose, next to us. Friends, there is not much I can say about peace and justice in the world. In my changed mind I could see four or five times the state of the war. At the same time, love and respect remain for a very long time. Go to the church somewhere in the night I am going to do a search in this store, organize your này Nothing for me towards it I do not know for you I do not know whether I thehoslar But I am sure that all of you have carried this conscience very clearly. And our last goal is partnership for the purpose of friends. Hundreds of countries around the world sign agreements on certain agreements on this subject. The Kioto Protocol, the Paris Climate Agreement, etc. and the many meetings that have come so far, the law, the legal design, the standard, the integration process, the regulation process, etc. These are really valuable steps that have been taken to make these studies come to life. These steps have not been interrupted. Not only have countries participated in the management level, but I think it should be evaluated as a structure that is not limited to the public, but that people are internally internalized. There is such a distinction between the 17 sustainable development goals we have described and the goals we can evaluate. The first four goals are what we call biosphere. In fact, we are talking about a more livable world. These goals are really important in terms of sustainability of the world and the second goals necessary for social fabric for humanity. Actions that do not interfere with breathability, well-being of people,opa to everyone in the world, health, environment and文 Senior Going неjektar also need to be negotiated and democraticFT small state Personen enters ne density buçuk sorumu secretary ovalttipverage soothing Min strange à and reach the goals of the world, and to be able to achieve justice, it is very valuable to be connected to these goals for a structure. And the goals that we consider as undoubted economic development goals to make this humanity properly continue its life are very valuable. There is the excitement of being able to live together at the top of this. If we do not do this, the processes that will come to us with climate change will continue to increase its intensity and size. As a result of these processes, people, as a result of these processes, the world will continue to be harmed and will become unbearable after a while. So what are we going to do? I would like to express to all my friends who will be with me in the mentoring process, that I am very grateful to you for your support. This is the basis for which we will work. We can start by saying this here. I think there are three factors that will be needed for a project to really come to life. One of these factors is purpose. Goals can be determined based on these goals. No project without a purpose, no story will eventually succeed. I want to continue by connecting this topic with a word. As a result, they say that no wind can help where it goes. The second issue is faith. If you do not believe in what you are doing and even more so, it will be very difficult for you to succeed. The third is a program. If you have a purpose, if you truly believe in success, if you are convinced, there will undoubtedly be obstacles in your way to walk this path. But if you do what you can do to make the best of it, we believe that you will succeed. Please believe in yourself. If you are going to carry out any project, if you are going to take any step, do not lose this belief. Because friends, the world will be a more livable world with your efforts. We thank everyone who listens to this program, who contributes to this program. I'm glad you're here. Please support these efforts. And I hope you continue to increase your strength without ever losing it. Thank you. Thank you very much for the presentation for the presentation and for the purpose of affecting the students for the end of this week. We will give a 10-minute break. We will meet again in our second session at 11. See you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Aujourd'hui aujourd'hui It is a very complex subject. There are many things to tell, but our time is very limited. That's why I prepared a presentation. I will touch on the point in which young people who are a little bit in the air crisis contact you in that presentation. Sorry, they say that the broadcast is not coming, but Suha, can you look at it? Okay, I can continue. So, am I starting from the beginning? I'm coming now, you can continue, Yasemin Hanım. Okay, if I were to start from the beginning, I have been dealing with the climate crisis for about 4-5 years. I am trying to do journalism in this field. We are trying to tell individuals about the climate crisis on this subject. Because it is a very complex and dynamic subject. There are many steps. There is the business world. There are decision-makers. There are individuals. I am trying to convey more of the decisions of decision-makers and the work world to individuals. I am trying to explain how the WhatsApp message we send every day, or the small meal on our plate, or the plastic bottle we use every day affects the climate crisis. I am trying to explain how the good morning messages we send to each other in the morning, how the messages are, and the emojis we send to each other affect the climate crisis. Even they are very important. Even they cause the climate crisis. Since our time is limited, I have prepared a presentation. I want to talk about it. There are many reasons for the climate crisis, but I think one of the reasons is that we cannot imagine it. Because we cannot imagine. We cannot imagine a fire. We cannot imagine a migration. I will talk about it a little. If you have any questions, I would like to take them at the end. I am sharing the screen right now. We did the rehearsal yesterday. I hope it will be. We see it, right? Yes. Can we check it? Let me check it. I cannot check it from here right now. We were checking it on the screen. How can we do it now? I am pressing the right button, it is not working. I am pressing enter, it is not working again. Let's do it like this. Let's make it full screen then. Let me stop sharing. If we make it full screen, can you see it? We cannot see it right now. How can we do it? Yes. Let's see it from here. Yes. I just said that we cannot imagine fires. How does the sound come? Okay. Now. I will check my notes. In 2024, the fire of at least 13.5 million hectares of forest was broken record. This means 18 million football fields. And the carbon dioxide emission created by fires changes every year between 5 to 8 billion tons. This means that, dear young people, Turkey's emission created in a year is 16-17 times. We cannot imagine fires. I am saying that no one should live. We cannot imagine migrations. I am saying it right now. Unfortunately, future projections say that the World Bank is predicting that up to 2050, it is expected that up to 44 to 216 million people will be able to migrate to countries due to global climate change. Migration is expected to be possible. We all know that there is nothing comfortable about migration. We do not think about taking our luggage and our things and go away. Migrations really undermine the lives of many people. This is one of the reasons for the climate crisis. We cannot imagine the plastics under the seas. Look, I have a picture about them. Secret lurking underneath the ocean here. I always say that every year 8 to 10 million tons of plastic is thrown into the ocean, dear young people. So I ask you to give up plastic bottles, single-use plastics. It is not forbidden in our country yet, but single-use plastics have been banned in many countries, including India. And now there are 199 million tons of plastic in the sea. So it is estimated that there are 200 million tons of plastic waste. This means 20 million tons of waste. I'm going fast. One of the things we can't imagine is our loss of biodiversity. Look, there is information that 50% of wildlife is destroyed here. But this is an old movie, I think it's 2021. Right now it has reached 75%. And the United Nations data shows that one third of the world's land is unfortunately affected by the negative effects of the loss of biodiversity. The loss of biodiversity does not mean that only a few animals are gone. It affects many areas from the medical sector to the food sector, of course. Yes, our topic is the rising fire of the world, the climate crisis. Between the most affected by agriculture, water, and energy. Of course, the climate crisis is not something new. The climate crisis has been being voiced more and more for the last 50 years. The reason for the climate crisis is climate change. Climate change is not a new issue. The explosion of volcanoes, the change of continents, the climate has already changed in the world at the age of 4.5 billion. Our problem is the return of climate change to the climate crisis. The reason for this is the production of human hands, especially after the industrial revolution, and the emergence of a lot of production and a lot of consumption. If we do not consume, it will not be produced anyway. Unfortunately, the consumption and production balance that lies below this causes the climate crisis. There is one last research, I want to give it. The first disaster point linked to the world's greenhouse gas emissions is the climate crisis. This is a very new research, I read it yesterday. A report with the title of Global Revolution Points and 160 scientists from 23 countries agree that we have emission sources here. The cause of the climate crisis is industrial operations, agricultural activities. Unfortunately, the countries that contribute the most to this work are the United States, China. China is the last country to do so. The articles I think of it as the Abbess of beauty and photography started to take some measures at that time. been in taking measures by the European Union We all know how the United States is, especially with the advent of Trump. The balance is at its best There's something there. Yes, therirqu is a veryق expressed collecting traction analysts in a very Pepto-!!!! The suffering of the crisis to a screens Мосkva could go to India. There is a different administration Form, World, and International Dum amor also from nation to government of the pharmaceutical industry. business world and management, lower management, are still struggling on this subject. The climate crisis is actually, let me show you the climate crisis briefly here, this is a cartoon film I showed to my little children. Let me turn off the sound. Let it go fast here. The climate change is actually that there is a greenhouse gas layer surrounding the world. If this is not the case, it is not the case because our world has to live with that gas. If it were not for that gas, the world would already be an ice mass. Therefore, there has to be that gas layer. There is oxygen, carbon dioxide, water vapor, methane, but they have to be in a balanced form. Our problem is that we have to be in a balanced form. Our problem is that we have to be in a balanced form. Our problem is that we have to be in a balanced form. That gas would be 15 degrees, as if the world's temperature was 15 degrees. It would be minus 15 degrees. It is not possible for us to live with this anyway. But the thing is that the climate is affected differently because those gases are increasing. The problem is that gases generated from production increase this layer. There are solutions. There are solutions. There are solutions. Let's talk about it later. I was just saying that this research is called the Merchant Reefs. Look, the Merchant Reefs under the sea are in great danger. What do we think this will do? It looks like a photograph that we think is just a visual, a beauty, but it is not. Merchant Reefs cause the oceans to exist. About 25% of ocean creatures are living in the ocean. About 25% of ocean creatures are living in the ocean. About 25% of ocean creatures are living in the ocean. This is bio-diversity. The reason for the existence of oceans is the existence of the world. It is a large carbon-absorbing area. Therefore, the Merchant Reef is not gone, but a large problem. The Merchant Reefs have begun to whiten. An alarm was given about this two days ago. Yes, the agricultural sector is no longer the same. The land is tired, the number of people is too much. We all feel it. Believe me, I entered the manava yesterday. I am in Hatay now. I entered the manava to buy spinach. I entered a manava. He said 60 liras. I said 60 liras for spinach, what happens? I went out. I entered another manava, 100 liras. In other words, the loss is also starting to decrease. Because there is a serious drought everywhere. In addition, there is a climate crisis. There is a drought. This year we could not eat spinach. Another issue is water. Our country is under water stress. There is a value. If that value is equal to the water consumption per person, the water level of the country is not a problem. But our value is in the 1100s. But this value should be in the 1700s. So, the water level of the country is in the 1100s. So, the water level of the country is in the 1100s. Therefore, we are a country with a water site. Unfortunately, the data shows that, the visuals also show, you have seen in Konya, huge ponds have opened. Now we are on the way to being a poor country. Now we are on the way to being a poor country. Now we are on the way to being a poor country. If we say energy, our energy production, Turkey's energy production, is really very good. is really very good. It is a very good country. I am looking at the charts. Our electricity consumption in 2024 is 340. There is a unit like that. But what we produce is 341. But what we produce is 341. So, what we produce is more than what we consume. But what is our problem? We don't have raw material. As raw material, natural gas and coal, we are dependent on abroad. Therefore, there is such a problem. And especially with the increase in artificial intelligence and its use, we will need a very serious electricity in the coming years. Maybe you have witnessed it. There were some laws that were issued. There was something called the bag law. And the public said it was the olive tree law. Now, the name of that law is not the olive tree law. I think that law should be applied correctly. Because the name of the law is a law that some regulations are made for the transition to renewable energy. And it says there that we are dependent on abroad as raw material. We have to use our own mines. Of course, we don't want wild mining. Of course, we want the region to be rehabilitated after mining is done. But we don't want to be dependent on abroad. I am asking you this question as a person who is a member of the public. Should we be dependent on abroad as raw material? Or should we open our own mines in our own country? We all know that the security of external dependence is a problem. We know that there are nature and trees in the use of mines in the homeland. We need to judge this. Yes, to solve this problem, we need to work together. I am leaving the decision-makers of the labor world aside. I want to turn to the young people in the individuals. Because you will be the most interested in this business. There are some researches that show that young people can be more hopeless against the future. Young people are the most anxious and worried about climate crisis. At the end of the presentation, I would like to ask you if you feel the same. By the way, young people are becoming more aware of the climate crisis. But they are also feeling fear, helplessness, and anger. You will know this better. An anxiety called eco-anxiety has started. People do not want to get married anymore. Young people do not want to have children. This is the result of eco-anxiety. What should we do? We need to prepare for the climate crisis. This can be done through climate communication education. We learn to adapt to this education and to prevent it. We are talking about this kind of thing so that we can at least be aware of what we are doing. We need to adapt. Preventing efforts to protect the world resources but also we need to take action. Dear young people, I will give you an example of a group of young people who are taking action in the Netherlands. I will drink some water. In the Netherlands in 2021, climate action is being carried out all over the world every year in the month of April. In 2021, I will be taking a daughter's education. She took part in this and sent me the images. Look, a large-scale Netherlands, especially in the beginning, is being done in many countries. Young people are making their voices heard here. They are saying their words. So what are we doing? Look, there is also a certain civil society organization about this. I will talk about them a little later. Last year, in 2024, it was done every year since 2018. It was done last year. This year it was not done because young people were planning to do an action for Palestine this year. Because it is really a bit difficult to do these actions in Turkey. Because look, there were this many people last year. We young people, if we complain about something, if we want to put something in order, we are in a position to take action. I know three of these young people. For the first time, three young people who filed a case against the climate crisis in the presidential office. Atlas, who has a megaphone in his hand, is one of them. Yes, these three young people, Greta Thunberg, came to Turkey in the past few days. Young people, young people who are interested in this subject, know Greta. For the first time, a person who started the action by sitting in front of the parliament was in 2018. He hung up the school and made a Friday day in front of the parliament. That's why on the last Friday of September, such an action is being done. You can look at it. I think you should be interested. Look, Fridays for Future, Turkey for Climate. Each of these really works on this subject. United Nations You must definitely enter the environmental program. Both for your development and for those who want to give a project on this subject. These are great platforms. Envej Alliance, this is also a civil society institution. I am in the Journalism and Ecology Journalism Department. There are also very good programs related to young people here. Please enter these. Because we have hope despite everything. We can only carry out this hope with you. What happens if the world is limited? Let me give you a few concrete examples. The average temperature of the world is 14-15 degrees. When we say 14-15 degrees, we mean average temperature. Equator, North Pole, etc. We are not talking about the temperature. We are not talking about being 33 degrees when the temperature is 32. We are not talking about the temperature of the world in the temperature of 1.5 degrees. We are talking about the temperature of the earth's globe, not the temperature of the world. The glaciers melt and the number of glaciers that melt between 1979 and 2019 is 2.0. The number of glaciers that melt is 2.0 in Turkey. And it is still melting. Sorry, we are closing our time. We can continue. This is an important example. Everyone knows the Tuz Lake. Flamingos come here and lay their eggs here. Because there is no water, all the flamingos that came out two years ago died, unfortunately. What can you do? Planned shopping, taking your photos once a month, definitely giving up using plastic, please delete the many apps on the phone, WhatsApp messages, mails. There are cases that the world has opened, there are cases that young people have opened. Young people like to rebel, they like to object. You objected, here is the government, object in this direction. Nobody says why you object on this issue anyway. As I said, they opened a case against President Erdogan, Seren and Atlas. Nobody said why are you opening a case against us. By the way, there are new and rising professions about the climate crisis. I say you should definitely look at them. I wrote a few here. We are not stupid because we are stupid. We are not stupid because we use coal, we want to produce, we want to run the refrigerators, but when we want to do something, there is a problem. Therefore, I think human intelligence will solve this. I am not hopeless. Finally, here is my communication information. You can reach me from here. My YouTube channel, LinkedIn, Instagram, you can reach me from anywhere. Thank you for listening to me. Let's see how I will turn my screen again. Will I be able to do it? Thank you very much for the presentation, Ms. Yasemin. See you in our third session for our session at 11.30. Okay, then there is no question, right? I couldn't see it right now, but it would be possible to communicate with you in the process. I think it would be possible. Okay, see you soon. Goodbye. Can we watch your other sessions? Yes, our YouTube channel is being live broadcasted. Okay, great. Thank you, guys. See you soon. Thank you. Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Welcome, friends. We are with you in our third session. We talked about how to maintain and how to gain awareness and how to move forward. Now, we will take this awareness and create new ideas with the problems we have discovered this time, maybe include the entrepreneurial ecosystem and talk about why the entrepreneur is important in a session with you. I will leave the floor to Mr. Serdar. It will be with you with a valuable transmission. Thank you, Berge. Hello everyone. I am Serdar Turan. Let me introduce myself briefly. I am a computer engineer, friends. I am a computer engineer in the team. I am one of the people who have a higher age average than 98. In 2001, between 2013 and 2013, I had a experience in Microsoft in the United States in about 12 years. I founded my first startup there. After 4 years, I exited the company. In 2013, I returned to Turkey and after a while, I founded my second startup in Yıldız Technical University's Technopark. After 6 years, I exited it. Now, I am both an entrepreneur and I continue my journey with new startups. I am also an investor. I do mentoring. I am also a writer. I do consultancy. I am very happy to be here. Now, I would like to spend some time in the chat room. I do not have any presentation. I would like to share some of my experiences and what I have learned. I would like to start with a story I did not share with anyone but I did a mentoring. I would like to start with a story I like very much. Now, to move from awareness to entrepreneurship, to decorate it with a journey. This is the essence. There is a story that I think reflects this well. Now we are all reading somewhere, we all have a story, a past, and we all want to be successful, to do good things. But when I look at people, people are divided into two. One is the one who constantly complains about the environment, who see the problems and complain, and who do not take action on this issue. And the other is the one who continues to struggle and struggle to solve it instead of complaining. Now there is a friend, who is a primary school teacher, who has been working for a long time. Just like you, after university, he starts working somewhere. The places where primary school teachers can work are obvious. They can work in the state, they can work in the private sector. But at the end of the day, there is a social perception that they are limited in what they can do. This friend realizes this. Let's start with awareness. He sees that students are constantly required to have new content, new visuals, painting forms, such documents. So that the day goes well, the content goes well, I can teach new things to students. And it is possible to constantly like different topics. In this regard, the Ministry of Education has a very good reputation. As far as I know, the Ministry of Education has some resources, but it does not see that it is enough. Therefore, he first investigates, then starts producing himself. He only produces content. So he makes drawings. He shares these drawings later on social media. He sees that there is interest. People start downloading the drawings he makes. They even use them. This friend has a brother. His brother is a computer engineer. He is a computer engineer. He finished his studies. He says, brother, these drawings and content I made are interesting. Should we turn this into a web page? His brother prepares his web page. After preparing his web page, they look at it and see that there are more downloads. They turn this into a free model. They make a mobile application. And they make the students' needs not only with these visuals, but also with the tools they need. They make this a free model. They make this a free model. Then, they make it more comprehensive up to the weekly and monthly forms that the ministry demands. Now, if we look at the results of this, we can see that these two brothers have realized and identified the needs of the primary school teachers and have moved towards a solution that solves this need. These two brothers. Now, the interesting thing is that I think it's been 3-4 years since we started this business. I think it's been 3-4 years since we started this business. I think it's been 3-4 years since we started this business. And every year, they sell this free membership method. And every year, they sell this free membership method. And in Turkey, they have managed to sell this to about 15,000 teachers. about 15,000 teachers. If we look at the economic side of the business, if we look at the economic side of the business, these two brothers are doing what they love, what they know, what they do, they can earn much more than their normal salary work. they can earn much more than their normal salary work. They also feel more productive. They also feel more productive. If we look at this story, it starts with awareness. It's a very good example of taking a step, moving, instead of complaining. And as a result, I think it's a very good example of turning this into an initiative. You can look at the website, it's called oynayaoynaya.net. It's a very good website, especially mobile application. Now, as I said at the beginning, the people I see are usually two-sided. One is the complainers, and the other is those who see the problems and act. You may know Bilardo. We have a sportsman with awards around the world. He has a saying, I like it very much. He says, the greatest success of a sportsman is to overcome laziness. This laziness is a general disease. Unfortunately, we all have it. Such a state of restlessness. If we look at how much time we spend on our cell phones and social media, it's already like a sign of this alone. I'm not saying this is bad, but at that time, to improve ourselves and to be able to show something, it's actually a sign of how much time we have. Now, what did I say in the previous example? We said awareness, we said to move, we said entrepreneurship. Now, there is a difference between entrepreneurship and startup entrepreneurship. I want to make a very short mention of it. What is startup? It is actually an entrepreneurship, but according to traditional enterprises we know, according to traditional trade methods, it is more like a self-improvement that requires constant development. It is a mindset that wants to follow the world very well, but at the same time it is a mindset that can turn technology into an opportunity and come together. I have a book that I wrote 3-4 months ago. I have a book that I wrote on Amazon. It is currently on sale. It is a book called Innovation Gridlock. I told you about it in a chapter. I call it 3T. Team, Trends and Technology. Team is the human dimension. We will develop ourselves first. This is very important. Our approach to entrepreneurship is to be curious, to be determined, to give importance to personal development while educating ourselves. We have to be able to develop ourselves. A person who already has these naturally deserves to be a startup entrepreneur. Then, trends come after the team. What do I mean by trends? What kind of problems do we have in the environment where we have the needs to read the market well? There is no end to problems. Keep it from the house we are in. The problems we see when we go out on the street, the problems we face when we go to work, the shortcomings we see, all of these are actually issues that need to be solved. Someone is expected to take a hand in these. Therefore, I am talking about people who are concerned about what can be done here by noticing these. Finally, technology. We live in a time when we use the latest technology correctly and we have the ability to use it in the right way. This is the reason why the startup of the future is being established. Startups are established in garages. Why is this being done? Because even if there are two people in a closed garage, if you can use technology correctly, it is possible to make a product that you can sell to the whole world. This is only possible when technology is used correctly. In other words, we can use the technology correctly. When you open an office or a business, you cannot catch the scale economy. That is why these are not called startups. For startups, it is necessary to have the ability to follow technology closely. Therefore, these three T's, i.e. team, individuals, trends, reading the market well, reading needs well, and the success of the startup is very important. If you are interested in this, you can start a successful startup when you reach a certain maturity. If you pay attention, there is no idea in this formula. Usually, it is expected to come with a very good idea. It is thought that if I have an idea, I will save the world. Let me explain the reason. There is a very good book called Rework. Jason Fryden's book. It was best-seller in the New York Times. I recommend you to read it. It is described in a very good formula. It says that if you want to measure the value of your startup in the future, let me give you a very simple formula. The worst idea should be at one value. The best idea is at ten. But the movement part, the execution part, if the worst execution is at one value, the best execution is at one million. Now, do you want to measure the value of your startup? What is your idea? There is an expression that you can find the approximate value of the movement part. What does this mean? The best execution is at one million. But the best idea is at ten. I hope I have explained the expression. Therefore, it is more valuable to put effort and hard work than to put an idea. Why should we start a startup? I want to talk about a few sentences about it. First of all, startup entrepreneurship gives people self-confidence. It makes them more resilient. It makes them realize something. It makes them feel that they are very good and efficient. But the most important thing is that you become a positive person. You are not complaining but you are a producer. You should not forget that entrepreneurship is not just about starting a company. It is about moving into the direction of your life. It is not about the orders from somewhere. You are determining your own direction. This is very valuable. From an economic point of view, of course, the financial aspect of the business is important. Very successful startup stories are told. If there is one successful story, maybe there are a thousand failed stories. But they are always an opportunity to learn new things. And in general, those who fail can achieve success in their next startup. They make a lot of money. They make a lot of financial welfare. But it is only possible if this action is taken. It is just another kind of dream. We should not forget that. From a social point of view, of course, big changes do not come from big institutions. They start from the hardworking individuals. For example, let's think about it in the near future. Especially when we look at these big social transformations brought by technology, such as social media, artificial intelligence, these are all the things that the private sector and those who act with the spirit of entrepreneurship have actually revealed. They have turned into concepts. For example, have you heard of Peak Games from Turkey? Maybe a group of young entrepreneurs born out of the curiosity of games, but Turkey's first unicorn, that is, a success story worth one billion dollars. Now, I talked about awareness, moving to action, startup entrepreneurship, these. I would like to make a connection with the sustainability side. Now, of course, the important thing in entrepreneurship today is not only economic or individual. There is also a mission to make startups a better place in the world. There are so many problems to be solved in this area. There are so many problems from energy to waste management, you know. And the solution to these problems is to develop a team with a deep technological depth, field expertise and a global scale. That's why the activities you organize are really valuable. Let me give you a good news. There is also very serious financial support in this area, especially in funds in Europe and Turkey. As long as good, hardworking teams are involved, it is possible to turn this into a logical startup model in the way I mentioned in the 3D formula. Then financial support is received and success stories are written. Let me sum it up like this. Let's not forget that real change is not from the meeting rooms of giant companies. Instead of saying let someone do it, it starts with the courage of people who say let me do it. I am going to a future where you will move your potential and write your own success stories. Thank you. If you have any questions, I can take them. Thank you again. Mr. Serdar, thank you very much. It was a really full session. Let me check the questions from YouTube. If you have any questions, please ask them. I have a question for Mr. Berna. Hello, I have a very good presentation for me. I want to ask something. How should we think about the good ideas developing in wrong environments so that creativity does not disappear? Which environments? I couldn't understand. I want to know how to develop the right ideas. I am trying to understand the question. I mean from the wrong environment. If there is not enough support from the surrounding, the ideas are good, but the environment is not suitable for it. I can't see enough support. I understand that there is a question. Yes, I agree. Yes, now nothing happens in this entrepreneurship journey because nothing will be four-four on the journey. I can guarantee that. Entrepreneurs can overcome such challenges and difficulties. That's why I used the expression of sustainability. This is very important. This is one of the challenges. How can this be overcome? It can be overcome with such groups. It is very valuable to have similar thoughts with you and to be together with people. Especially in this time, with the blessings of technology, you can work with different teams in the world, from the most original corner of Anatolia . Trust yourself in that. And also take a step. For example, just getting up on Saturday morning and watching these, then doing the follow-up of this, instead of going back, how can I contribute to this? What can we do together? Then what happens? Don't wait. Take a step. I think so, too, Mr. Serdar. Actually, the most important thing is to move. Creating a network right now, entering a network, is probably much faster, much faster, much more dynamic than before. And you can be sure that throughout the camp, we will bring you together with the right environments, with the right ideas. Let me say that you will bring your ideas better. I think there was no other question. Mr. Serdar, thank you very much. It's okay, thank you. I wish you success, friends. Thank you. Friends, we will have a 10-minute break. Then we will be with you with our fourth session. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, friends, hello everyone. We are with you with the last session of the online summit before noon. In the first three sessions, we saw what sustainability is and how we can gain awareness about what problems we have. Of course, we talked about how to participate in the entrepreneurial ecosystem, why entrepreneurship is important. Of course, we have to go through some processes to really detect a problem and design it on a real flow. Mr. Semih will be transferring these processes to you in a moment. Let me leave the word to Mr. Semih. Thank you very much everyone. Greetings to everyone in the audience. Thank you to the young people who want to improve themselves. Maybe we talked a little before we started. We have a difficult time for business life right now. Don't be too upset. Keep improving yourself in this way. Continue to invest at the end of the week. I will definitely add a break after a while. Now we have 20 minutes. Let me briefly talk about myself before I go in. To establish a connection. Then I will relate it to today's workshop. And I prepared something like a small case study here. I will touch on them. I am Semih Kılıçgedir. I am a founding partner and CEO of Goodtech. I graduated from 2014 Boğaziçi Machine. I may look a little young. But I am 35 years old. I worked in commercial business. I worked in management consultancy in holding companies. I have been in technological entrepreneurship since 2020. First, we started an enterprise called Baati. Between 2022 and 2022. We expanded it. We made an investment twice. The highest is $ 2 million. It is about $ 350,000. Then we experienced some enlightenment. We completely changed our business model. We have a team of investors. With the Goodtech brand. We develop digital products for institutions and technology companies. We develop full-stack mobile applications, web applications, including design and writing. In parallel, we have a series of entrepreneurship projects. We continue to test and create new enterprises. I can summarize. Of course, everyone is telling the story of success here. It's definitely not like that. It doesn't last longer than 10. I have a foundation for this process, which I learned both in the commercial and digital product processes. In other words, we will explain how a developer should apply a methodology to detect a problem. We will explain it with a simple case. I share it on a screen. A blank canvas will come. Is it here? I think it's here. Is it on the screen? Yes. Now I'm on the subject. Now when you go to a market. We will have partners. Too much. First, we will define the partners in a market. After that, we will set the process of how these partners interact with each other. After setting the process, we will start to define the problems here. We will start to write solutions below. First I will do it as a generic. Then I will sit on one example. Let's use something like this. Let's use a circle. Or it's easy to write. Let's use an ellipse. Let's write a little bit of design. I have a look. Let's make it colorful, let's make it detailed. Now, as I said, we talked about the partner. I say a partner 1 to this. I say a partner 2 to this. I say a partner 3 to this. I say that in the sector I am in, it can be automotive, tourism, education. I say that there may be a partner. State, public, student, company A, company B, etc. I express that there are such partners. Then I say that these will come together over a process like this. First of all, these are common sense, by the way, friends. You come across many terms in business life. They are all such airy words. Normally, they are all common sense. So, for most things, you don't even need to study at a university. If you don't deal with data and math. A little bit of data and math. It teaches you to establish a second degree of balance. They usually can't do anything. So they can't relate three variables. Or they can't establish a second degree of balance logic. People are so You start researching at first. There is a classic thing. There is a phase of awareness. After your research is over, you start evaluating, you start making comparisons, you start making lower features. Then you carry out the purchase process. You will have an experience after purchasing. Finally, this is the first step. You start to make a comparison. The question that you ask yourself is whether you will continue with this firm and this product. Or will you go to another thing? You make that decision. After you do these things, you say here. I encountered a problem 1 here. I encountered problem 2 while doing it. I encountered problem 3. You do it on your own, it would be best. This way you list the problems. Then, you say, the best solution to be done here is solution 1, solution 2, solution 3. You draw a table like this, I think. Let me show you a picture. This is a standard thing. I took it from the generic just to get started. Now we will fill it slowly. When I was talking to my friends who were organizing, we said which example to go from. We said we could buy electronic goods for students, then we could go on a trip. We said let's talk about an Amsterdam trip that we all dreamed of and never realized. Of course, at that time, the euro was not that expensive, so we were going to work and take a plane ticket when we were at university. Sorry, there were such realities at the time of the period. Now, God bless you. Now, let's talk about a travel thing. Let's even write a sector above, let's say you will travel. Let's say tourism. I am in the tourism sector. Of course, we have a travel partner in the tourism sector. Second, I throw it. Travel. Let's say there are search engines. There is such a partner. I throw the third one. Let's say visa, consular, magazine. We have such a partner. Apart from that, the airline company, the carrier company, the hotel company is a partner. For now, I think these are enough. Let's say tourism guides. Maybe it adds depth to the subject. Now, as a traveler, what did I do from the beginning? Let me take these down a little bit in process 1. What am I doing in the first step? I want to decide where I will go. Then I take out the requirements. I am making a budget and let me say document processes. Then I look at the research. Research is not a subject. It is a subject. I am doing research. Or let me say this. Let me say ticket accommodation and similar purchase. I am making my purchases. Then I go on the airline. Then I am doing my trips. Maybe I can say hotel. I am doing hotel. I am doing my trips. Then even here is one thing. Of course, I am hanging up Instagram. We went this far. Then I come to the return way. Now I did something like this. Let's say I'm looking for a tourist destination. What is one of the things I do? I'm entering search engines. I'm doing something. Let's say question 1. For example, I'm throwing it. In the city. I couldn't get the necessary information on the city. I made such a problem. While making budgets, I can do this. I couldn't reach the current budgets. These are completely different, guys. I'm shaking. I had a hard time reaching the current spending, accommodation or, let's say, activity budgets. Of course, there is a chat right now. When I was buying, I did something after that. For example, when I was buying, I couldn't reach the bills. I bought it, I couldn't reach the bills. I'm throwing it. I couldn't show the documents. I went to the airport. I had a problem with the suitcase on the airport. There was a problem with the suitcase weight. I couldn't find a good guide while traveling with hotels. I couldn't find a good guide. I went to Rome. I went around. I couldn't understand anything. You did something like that. In return, for example, I throw it. You will make a taxi front. Taxi front process was not digitized. It was physical. I was late for the plane. You will say I couldn't do it. This way, I'm throwing it. I'm going to make a taxi front. I'm going to make a taxi front. I'm going to make a taxi front. I'm throwing it. You will make a taxi 죄송. Taxi front process was not digitized. It was physical. I was late for the plane. You will say I couldn't do it. This way, you made a trip. Of course, this may develop much more. According to what you have in your mind. After that, you are slowly developing solutions. You say, solution 1. Let me create a blog post by integrating the content of the locals into YouTube. Take your solution. He can do something that the man can catch directly from the search. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. I'm going to make a blog post. Relasonic housing identity. Vote now. Google, page numbers, five dollars, etc. Or wrote homebuat. Edition that files and save and下去 an end. Let me elegant. I'll segment it, low budget, high budget, etc. I'll take it from low to high. I'm continuing, I couldn't reach my bills. Let me develop a bill service office. I tell companies that customers can reach all their bills from here from one place. The suitcase weight came too much, I throw it with the ones with less luggage in the airport. Let's do the balancing process with the ones with less luggage. We couldn't find a good guide. Let me make a group of good guides. Let me offer a guide service. I'm now doing taxifunds with this company to digitize taxifunds. I'm talking to Afaki. Taxifunds digitization. Now I have identified such problems. I am an entrepreneur. I repeat the partners. I took it out. This is my sector. This is my partner. When such a journey passed, I experienced such problems. There are solutions like this. As an entrepreneur, I will want to solve one of them. I will tell you something very critical, guys. I saw this by making my own mistake. We have a lot of time because we consume a lot of resources. It's 13 o'clock. Film watching, reading books, news, techcrunch, etc. There is a wrong perception in our minds. It's like we need to do something mindless. We think. It's like we're going to do something like this. We're going to open a new category. We're going to fly, we're going to run away. What I do is a billion dollars. No, there's nothing like that. Especially if you're a little bit far away. If you don't have a certain income, if you don't have a silky bath in the bathroom, you need to start with simple trade, which is the first thing you need to do. And this is not going to be 99.99% technology in simple trade. You will use existing technologies. But you won't try to develop your own digital products. You won't try to bring tens of shares to a place. It's simpler. You need to start with trade. Then, as you grow your capital step by step, as you grow your capital, as you become able to invest, you enter the tourism sector with your best hands. Now, in this context, I'm looking at it. When I couldn't get the necessary information on the city, I would evaluate local YouTube content and blog post. For example, something I can do by using these existing technologies, making a little effort. Create a blog on the web page. Make a blog from Framer, put it in a blog. Make a little bit of digital marketing, create a little content, something I can do. But I came. Sky Scanner. I will aggregate it. I will put a hand in there. This is not a project for the entrepreneur. It's not a project for the new graduate or something. You need to postpone this complex project. The photo service office is exactly like that. This is like this. This could be something. You go to the airports. You really say that I will provide a balance service service for the luggage weight of the traveler who will travel in tourism. You say I will give service. Again, from a web page or from a mobile phone. In a way, simply. It is clear where the passengers are by sticking it. You can even wait at the airport. You can wait there and say to people that we have some friends. Today, we will go to Amsterdam. There are no luggage for four people. If you want, let's change the luggage. You make a small bag. I throw it there. Will the man give $ 50 or $ 100 more? You say give me $ 50 instead of $ 100. Let's make a solution like this. You give him $ 20. You create an operation like this. You will bring it to the conclusion after the money you earn. Again, I look at this example. What did you say? I couldn't find a good guide. This could be the case. You find good guides in that area and get their contacts. You create a nice profile for them. You tell people who will go. When you go to that guide, do it with them. Again, it's a completely manual, operational process. After that, you do the app and the web. You make a nice experiment. Taxi Fund is the same. It's a very complex thing. You will tell the man, let's do your taxi funds. I haven't gone into too much detail right now, but imagine that you are listing the share, problems, solutions here. Open a bottle next to it. Which one is high in technological confusion? Which one has a higher entry cost? Which one can produce faster traffic? After making such a comparison, you will choose the problem-solving relationship that can produce the fastest traffic, which requires the least technology, and can be used as a heavy service. And you will start doing it from there. This is the essence of methodology. I repeat with one more sentence. You went to the market with money. You made partners. You created a process. You distributed the problems in the process. You distributed the solutions. Among them, you established a balance between solving the problem of A partner B with C. You established the A partner B partner C. And you established this with the method that can produce the least technology and the fastest money. As you earn money, you move on to more complex tasks that require more technology. I can summarize in this way. I said let's take some time for a question and answer. Maybe we can meet for a question and answer. Berke, can you hear me? Yes, yes, Mr. Semih, I'm here. I'm listening to you. Honestly, I'm enjoying it. Let me check if there is any question. There was an extra question. There is no question at the moment. Okay. Let's ask. If there are any questions, let us know through the chat. By the way, I can say this. Maybe it's a question of how we will extract this data. We made a very famous example here. Let me say this. Let me do that. Now, the entrepreneur who will do this must definitely talk to all his partners. This is an issue that comes out by speaking. You go, you talk to him one by one, you talk to him, you talk to him, you talk to him, you talk to him. By the way, it may not come out in one process. Maybe there will be 8 processes. Processes are detected. Then problems are detected. Then solutions are detected. Of course, I will also say this. It is difficult for someone from outside to detect problems in a sector. Of course, we can live our own problems because we are our own customers. But I'm throwing it away. There is a process in the manufacturing sector of an industrial company that makes a complex manufacturing. It is a process of supplying, storing, processing, making products, shipping, testing customers. There is a journey there too. There are problems there. Or, for example, on the development side of software development, there are many problems in designing, writing, publishing, etc. You can't detect this while you are a student. You have to enter the sector for this. You will work in that sector. After working for 2-4 years, you will naturally receive all the shares. You will receive all the shares naturally. You will do the most accurate detection. For example, we have Ismail from MySite. He is my second-generation gold from my company. He enters P&G, friends. This is a very good example. We made an investment ourselves. So, if you look at MySite, it says MySite, the MySite, e-trade analysis. Think of it as a brand manager or a brand manager assistant. You have your real brand. You give it to brands on many digital channels. It is also sold on Bim, Carrefour, and it is also sold in local markets. He says, brother, we wake up in the morning, how much is my sales price? I give it to the distributor at a certain price, but the price changes in brands and sales. He says, no, you told me 23, he wrote 40 there, why 32? You gave a promotion there. I collect the data in the morning for half a day, and then I do the marketing. Brother, we did it like that, we will give you 2 percent. He did this on one site. He collects data from all sites. He sees the sales price of his own product on all channels, saying, put it in the digital market manager, product manager. You understand, right? In other words, he solved the problem of a real estate model that a real estate trader has trouble seeing the sales price. No matter how well you define this, after that, it is already a business. Because you solved a problem, the customer pays you money. Here, I'm throwing the ball again. Mr. Semih, a few questions came in, I will pass them to you in turn. The first question is, is the budget settlement with the settlement of the content of the local companies in the same difficulty? Let's see here. Do you think it's about these referrals? I'm looking at the budget of the local companies. Here is the settlement of the content of the local companies in YouTube. And which one is it, brother? Is it a referral? As a difficulty. Let me check it right away. We said that it is not a beginner's fit for one of them. Is it about sorting and filtering the difficult parts? So, you asked another question, brother, what question are you asking? Why did you say that it is not suitable for someone at the beginning? Is the difficult part the filtering of the filtering? True. The hard definition is your initial investment. You need to set up too many teams. You need to advertise too much. You need to invest in too much technology. You need to create digital products. These are the bottom levels of difficulties. So, you need to set up a lot of teams. You need to set up a lot of teams. But as I said, the process of aggregating and adding LLM to Skyscanner is a complex one. You will meet with all the companies and agree. You will set up teams that are suitable for this. You will promote this. This is hard. Exactly. It is a difficulty parameter. The difficulty of this is between 0 and 10. But creating a blog by including videos from YouTube and deriving that information is a 1-2 difficulty that you can do yourself. Therefore, it is a little difficult, very difficult. Therefore, the time and capital you need to invest in is directly proportional. Numbers, revenues, each jackpot and final expectations will have enough money for you. See, that this process is very simple. The guy we invite to 제약 or the frequent use of repair or the research that every traveler will not want repair, but will do every traveler. It makes more sense to earn something with a smaller amount of money from a place where more people will do it. Here, I may have put you back to the top. In short, it is necessary to look at which of these difficulties can leave more impact, which is more beneficial or maybe can get more profit. Let me move on to the other question. Now we are actively running an initiative project and we are working with these mixed technologies and partners. For us, what is the problem there? What can be implemented in the future? The first thing you need to do is, if you are at the stage of this, your goal is clear, the problem is obvious, your problem list can be crowded. Maybe you're trying to solve four, eight, twelve problems. Maybe you're trying to cover the entire process. Charge it there, brother. Say so. It may not be a product made in a short time, but it may be a product that can solve only this. It may not be four problems, but it may be a product that can be narrowed down and made ready to use, and you can immediately try to find customers around it. Again, in time, customers will tell you what they want with feedback. Accordingly, you will shape your product. Your trade will progress in the natural flow. May God help you. Absolutely. In other words, we can say that it is more important to come out in a more core way and then improve it with feedback and feedback. There was another question. Yes. What should an entrepreneur know as well as a professional? Brother, let me tell you something. Key question. I have two partners. Muratcan Gökças from Boğaziçi Physics, our CTO. Emre Arık from Cerar Bayar Computer Engineering. He is also a CTO. I do all the rest of the work on the technology side of the business. That's why I will divide the subject into two. One needs to do one in a technology venture, one needs to sell one. In other words, one will write software, one will do everything else. You must work in the sales sector for the seller. So it's B2B sales, it's B2C sales. By the way, the hardware is also included in this. If you are reading, start making hardware right away. Make a partnership. Set up a warehouse, sell to the customer, hold the safe, make payment. It's very important. Contact the customer. You will learn right away. The mind is already working. In the same way, I'm in a business that is actively selling. You entered Oracle, you will work in sales. I'm throwing it in. You entered Easyco, enter its sales department. How do you manage sales processes in companies door to door? Practice. I went to open a startup abroad. I lost 11 times in the trial. I was going to kill myself. But you learn to lose and lose. What you need to do. I'm throwing it. For example, you think that the seller should talk a lot. The seller is very concerned. You are not talking about the seller. You think the seller doesn't talk much. The seller asks questions. You learn in that time. You see American sellers. Atasport is already. This will come from the commercial side. So the entrepreneur's commercial side. The person who will do it must or must work in sales roles. Apart from that, it will also enable the sector to analyze. There are main professions that will make him look from above. Management consulting is one of them. Strategic consulting, management consulting. On the financial side, there is a company called M&A. There is something called company acquisition. There is something called company evaluation. There is something called venture capital. There is something called PE, which is a private equity. There is something called venture capital. There is something called PE, which is a big company investment. These always look at the sectors from above. To examine trends. Just like this, partners, processes, problems, where the money will move, they try to shift the money there. This will give you an incredible perspective from above. And this is what you do. This will make you put your work alone. But let me tell you the third one. Again, if you are planning to do a technology business from the commercial side, again, in a startup with a technology business, in a software company, you may be a product manager directly, you may be a design, you may be product marketing. In places like this, you don't get into software completely, but you have to get into the places where digital products are completely on the agenda. And you have to invest in these for two years. If you do these, you will achieve the right skills and knowledge. You will also make the right entry and entry detection. You will see the problems in the process while you are living. And don't think that the business world is sitting like this, four-headed, the back is a bomb. Logos, plazas, comedy, so inside. Thousands of problems, hundreds of thousands of problems are still going on. I will come to the technical side. Of course, it would be more correct if my partners said it for engineers, but you must enter projects. And you need to take part in active project teams. And the developers right now are doing front-end, back-end, etc. Would it be such a ridiculous thing? I use Excel, PowerPoint, I use BZK, etc. You will learn all of them. It could be that. If you are niche, it will definitely be more useful for you. Let me try to learn everything for two or four years first. Then if you say that I should delve into a topic, it would be great. And I will say this. Engineering friends are shitting on the ones who started in trade. Let them never get into this business. Let them definitely find a trading partner. The merchants are also the same. It is not that I made a developer do it with Celi and Celi. It is absolutely necessary to find the right engineer partner. If I give it to two people together, then success comes. I went long, it may have been our time. I'm throwing the ball to you. Then I will end the session with the last question. Our last question is this. Can the whole system be solved in the same way, or should we develop different observations and methods? This method and model is a model that I have invented myself. Here is the customer journey in the market. The journey is like this. In the market, you write a word called customer journey mapping. Here is the management advisory board. You get market share definition and continuous croquis. When you bring them a little bit in the form of a development problem, such a methodology comes out. There is absolutely no single way. There is absolutely and absolutely no single way. If you use them, your strategy will only be better. If you make a mistake in something, you do better to move on to the other. You make it better. But be sure, 90% of the investors know this. They don't know. Including those who are successful. So there is no single way, brother. Absolutely. Then Mr. Sebep, thank you very much. It was a full session for me. I hope so for my friends. Now we are ending our session. After lunch at 1.30, we will be back with Mr. Eren. See you. Good luck to all of you. I say health facilities. As I said, don't spoil your morale during a troubled period. Keep helping, brother. You always do something. Troubled days pass. Greetings. See you. See you. See you. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. kindergartenных. Thank you.